>> Richard Feldman: Second example,
we're gonna turn to the elm-spa-example,
that is to say the real-world conduit
example that we're gonna be using
throughout the workshop.
This is the Credentials module.
So Credentials holds on to your
credentials after you login.
So it has an authentication token,
as well as your username.
The authentication token needs to be
sent with every HTTP request that
goes to the API server, or else it
will reject it as invalid, that is,
if you need to be logged
in to do that thing.
So Credentials exposes a limited number of
ways to obtain one of these Cred values,
Cred being short for credentials.
So if you've got some Cred,
that means you're logged in.
So if the only way that we expose to
obtain one of these Cred values is from
the results of an Http.Request to
the server passing some login info,
whatever that might be, now we know,
okay, if I have a Cred value,
that means there must be a user logged in.
So if I have any function
that accepts a Cred value,
that means this function only
works when you're logged in.
Cuz in order to be logged in,
you must have run this function first.
Now in practice, we can't quite
lock it down as much as this.
We'll get into why that
is a little bit later.
The point being if we can enforce
the idea that the only way to obtain Cred
is by logging in, then from then on,
we can say okay, if I have some Cred,
that means that I am logged in.
And if this function requires
that I pass it some Cred,
that means this function only works
in the context of a logged in user.
So we'll come back to that later,
but there's some valuable
stuff to be had there.
Okay, so for the next example,
I wanna look at following.
So you have this notion of authors
who write these articles, and
you can follow them.
If you're following an author,
that means that they show up in your feed,
their articles show up in
your personalized feed.
So when I first wrote this function a
couple of years ago, I wrote it like this.
I said follow takes a Bool for
whether not I'm gonna follow this person.
And it takes an Author, and
then it returns Html Msg.
Which is to say,
this renders a follow button.
So when we render it,
if I pass true, then it's gonna say,
this is a box to follow the user.
If I pass false, it's gonna render a box
that says, this will unfollow the user.
Now, when I later came back and
revisited this,
I actually changed this a little bit.
I added Cred as an argument there.
Because you should only be able to follow
or unfollow people when you're logged in.
It doesn't actually make sense to have
a follow button as a logged out user.
So I wanted to rule that out.
I wanted to make sure that I was never
accidentally rendering a do-nothing follow
button, when I'm logged out.
And just by adding that argument,
even if I don't end up using the argument,
that ends up being something that we can
do, again, because Cred is an opaque type.
Because the only way to get
Cred is by being logged in.
Another thing that I noticed about
this as I revisited it later
is this Boolean is a little bit confusing.
What does it mean?
Does it mean that if I pass true,
am I going to get a button
that follows the user?
Or does true mean I'm already
following the user, and
actually this is gonna
render an unfollow button?
Which is it?
I mean, I could interpret it either way.
So later on, I kinda realized,
you know what, that's confusing.
I'm just gonna make two functions,
follow and unfollow.
So each of them has one fewer parameter,
and it's extremely clear now.
This is either a follow button or
it's an unfollow button.
That's what it does.
This is something that I've sorta
come to appreciate over time.
And it's also an idea that we're gonna
revisit again throughout the course of
the workshop, is the idea of
when do you want configuration,
versus when do you just want
to split out another function?
And I think that's something that is
not necessarily obvious at first blush.
But over time, I've sorta developed
more of a sense of this, and
I wanna talk about those trade-offs.
As previously noted,
the edge cases can be easy to miss.
And one way we can make them
less easy to miss is, make it so
that the code only compiles if
the edge cases are handled.
So let's talk about a specific example,
and we're gonna go to the code!
This slide appears many times
throughout the workshop.
And it's the sign that we're about
to switch over to the editor and
actually dive into some code.